[MUSIC PLAYING]
NARRATOR: The light
on the horizon
can be a sunrise or a sunset,
a beginning or an end.
Some people see the
glass as half empty.
Others think of it as half full.
Perhaps it's neither.
[CARS PASSING]
No, I never thought I was
going to be a window washer.
There's no way I'm going to
clean that building, man.
There's no way.
I wanted to have better
education, a better job.
I started messing
up in high school,
just not going to classes,
ditching school, just
going to band class.
I just wanted to become
a professional musician.
I mean, that's why
I'd spend so much
time in the practice rooms.
I miss coming in here
and practicing for hours.
Look, there's an old
picture of me here.
That's me right there.
And the LE Downtown
Building is back here.
Who knew I was
going to be cleaning
all these windows, huh?
Um, I think when I first heard
the news that I was going
to become a father, I tripped.
I did want to have kids
but not at an early age.
I wanted to have
them, maybe, at 35.
I wanted to have fun in my 20s,
but I have to support my kids.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
TV SHOW HOST: And now we
return to "Incredible Kids
and Company."
[CHEERING]
Welcome back to "Incredible
Kids and Company."
We are very pleased to introduce
you to our next special guest.
This young genius is
a polished magician.
His name is Todd
Brown, and he's been
fascinated with the art of magic
since he was eight years old.
We are proud to present Todd
Brown, magician extraordinaire.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE]
I haven't aged a day, have I?
My stage name-- I don't know
if I admitted this yet or not
in this documentary, but
my stage name at the time
was Flasho the Magician.
Did we ever discuss that?
Yeah, maybe that
shouldn't make it in.
I have my performance
case-- you know, top hat.
Got to have one of those.
This is the one I produced
my bunny rabbit out of.
His name-- it to be Fluffy,
but now it's Pancake.
Um, do bands of steel that--
INTERVIEWER: What?
Kind of go together like that,
come apart, stuff like that.
INTERVIEWER: Typical.
TODD (VOICEOVER): And I
absolutely thought about being
a magician full time.
That would've been great.
I had this appearance on
a TV show when I was 16.
And I was always at my
school talent shows.
And I just thought
I was on a roll.
And then, when I computed
on a national level
at one of the
national conventions,
I would say I lost
to a very famous
magician named
Lance Burton who had
a Vegas show for many years.
And I realized, at
that point, it was
time to find another career.
I don't know how we
got into this position.
[LAUGHTER]
I didn't say I going to move
my shoulder over, move my body.
No, the music pushed
my over, which is why I
call it "One Buttock Playing."
Now, I had an
amazing experience.
I was 45 years old.
I've been conducting
for 20 years.
And I, suddenly,
had a realization.
The conductor of an orchestra
doesn't make a sound.
My picture appears on
the front of the CD.
[LAUGHTER]
And that changed
everything for me.
It was totally life changing.
People in my orchestra came up
and said, Ben, what happened?
That's what happened.
I realized my job was to awaken
possibility in other people.
[BEN SINGING CLASSICAL MUSIC]
BEN: That was a tremendous
transformational moment
because it changed everything.
I was very emotionally
up and down.
[MAKING NOSIES]
So, if things were going
well, I'd be very excited.
[SCREAMS] If things were going
bad, I'd be very depressed.
[IMITATING INSTRUMENTS]
My thought was,
they're just following me.
And I'm going to push them
around until they obey my will.
[IMITATING INSTRUMENTS]
It changed immediately my
relationship to the players.
I'm so glad you came.
As I suddenly became interested
in knowing whether I was,
in fact, enabling
them to realize
the possibility that they are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Because if something
happens to you
and it's not a particularly
cheerful thing--
like a divorce, for
instance, or the loss
of a wonderful person or
illness or whatever it may be--
it's very hard.
[CRICKETS]
JORGE (VOICEOVER): The hardest
part is waking up at 4:00
AM or 3:00 AM--
whatever the time you're
supposed to be at the building.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I mean, once you have kids,
it's just life changing.
You can do stuff
that you want to do,
but it's just
going to be harder.
[HELICOPTER]
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
You just have to be
very alert, to think,
you know, one false step and
you fall off the building
and things go bad for everyone.
I mean, I can't say no.
It's just a
necessity to go work.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
It's just difficult to get to
wherever you want to get to.
So, this is not
about you anymore.
This is about you, your
wife, and your kid. [LAUGHS]
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
To this day, I can't
even go to the local park
because it's all dangerous.
I don't have enough
money to support
my family in a safer place.
That's why I'm working
so hard these days,
to get them out of
this neighborhood.
So I'm going through a divorce.
I wonder what's next.
That's very hard to do because,
in the moment of the loss
of an important relationship--
or something where you think
your whole world
is created around,
that idea of being
married, for instance--
the assumption is that
it's going to be terrible.
Not at all.
Mainly, I will say,
Rose had the discipline
to constantly come up with
this idea that, no, no, no.
This isn't the end.
It's just a different form.
I didn't see it at first
because I was [GRUMBLES]
trying to get it back.
Well, I'm the
philosopher in the group.
And so--
BEN: Because what normally
happens when two people
separate or divorce is they
try and make the other person
as wrong as possible,
get all the evidence they
can about how wrong they were.
And then they get
lawyers to come in there
and bash the other
as much in order
to justify what went wrong.
And what Rose did was the
exact opposite, which was,
this is not working.
This form of our
relationship is not working.
So Let's create a new form.
That's possibility.
TODD: As disappointed as
I was, to some degree,
knowing I was not going
to win this competition,
I was OK with that.
Magic has been such
an important component
of my life in ways I never could
have expected or anticipated.
Cool.
But yeah, I get a lot
of thank-you letters
for performing.
They're really nice.
"Todd, my young children
and I thoroughly
enjoyed your very
professional performance
in last night's variety show.
My youngest song, age
seven, was fascinated.
I think he may be making
career plans of his own.
Thanks again, and good
luck in tonight's show.
Mrs. Barber."
I still love it and it's
fun to fund a reminisce.
But that was then this is now,
so it's all-- yeah, it's fine.
I've never really had a job.
I've always kind of
done my own thing.
I've always been
an entrepreneur.
But there have been a
few opportunities for me
to give back using magic.
And one of those has been
performing at hospitals.
You know, a lot times things
that don't go your way lead
you to something else better.
I got interested in magic at
a pretty young age as a hobby.
And now, to think that I can,
maybe, inspire other kids-- I
love when those moments happen.
Hopefully I can make this
kid's day a little better.
It sounds like he's had
a pretty rough morning.
[MACHINES BEEPING]
Yeah.
It's an amazing world.
I mean, it's just--
it's a world of such joy
and open heartedness
and excitement.
And all these kids in
the youth orchestra,
particularly-- they're the ones
who are getting it full blast.
And you can see
it in their faces.
You can see it in their
joy and excitement,
It's an amazing thing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
My father, he had a
huge influence on me.
In fact, I met one of my
students in the corridor
after he died.
I said, my father
died yesterday.
And she started crying.
And I said, but you
didn't know my father.
She said, yes, I did.
I knew him through you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
My father, at age 95-- when he
was lying on his deathbed-- was
to say, as the
last thing he said,
is there anything
I can do to help?
That to me is a discipline.
That's a long life
in which he realized
he suffered extraordinarily.
But in the end, he
understood the most
important thing was to do
something for other people.
Hi, there.
I hear your name's Blake.
My name's Todd.
Nice to meet you, Blake.
-Hi.
-How's everything going?
-Good.
Doing all right?
Do you know why I'm here?
You're a magician.
Yeah.
Have you ever seen
a magician before?
What about a magical rainbow?
Have you ever seen
one of those, Blake?
Watch carefully.
We're going to make
one, all right?
Ready, right here.
See it?
Right there.
No, it's invisible.
That's why you couldn't see it.
Ready, though?
Watch.
Does that make you go,
ooh, ahh, maybe a little?
What do you think?
-Yeah.
Is that pretty cool?
Maybe when I'm done I can
teach you some tricks.
Would you like that?
All right, cool.
It helps you get
the girls, you know.
It didn't help me,
but apparently it
can help other magicians.
Can you take one of
those crayons out?
Don't show me, though.
I don't want to know, OK?
And can you put it in my
hand so I can't see it?
All right, I'm going
to turn around.
I'm going to try to
read your mind, OK?
All right, Blake, let's see.
Concentrate, concentrate.
I'm not sure what color, but
I'm feeling, like, the ocean
or some ocean or the sky ocean.
Why am I thinking
of-- was it blue?
Hey it was blue!
Good job.
You sent me some good messages.
Do you want to
know how I did it?
Do you know?
Do you any ideas?
Yeah, what's on my thumbnail?
Oh.
When I turned this way, I drew
on my thumb with the crayon.
So when I turned back
this way and pretended
to read your mind, guess
what I'm looking at?
The color.
A blue thumbnail.
I started doing magic when
I was about eight years old.
Magic was something that I
enjoyed doing as a hobby.
And I was in competitions.
And, you know, it's just a good
way to keep your mind going
and give you something to do.
So maybe that's something you
can work on one of these days.
Would you like to keep the
crayons and work on that?
OK.
Every time I've done a
volunteer gig using magic,
it's very gratifying.
I don't know how many
talents I have in this world,
but this is one I have and
something I'm able to do
to bring some joy to people.
JORGE (VOICEOVER): I mean,
now I know that I cannot
become a professional musician.
But I play music
almost every weekend.
And I get paid doing it.
That helps my
dream a little bit.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I usually just use
that money for Sundays
and spend time with my kids.
Every morning, they start
poking me in my bed.
So, I mean, I'd never
had that before.
And it's just a
warm feeling inside.
I mean, they wake
me up and, hey, Dad,
it's time for breakfast.
Or, hey, Dad let's go to sleep.
Or let's watch a movie.
Without them, I don't think I'd
be able to keep it together.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
A.
[A NOTE ON VIOLIN]
[INSTRUMENTS TUNING]
Shostakovish, starting
at the allegro.
I'll give you two
bars for nothing.
1, 1, 2, 1, 2.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Can we do the very first
[IMITATING MUSIC] like that?
1, 2, 1.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Shhh.
Whatever happens, whatever
the circumstances,
live into that possibility.
When you're alive
to possibility,
you're awake, aware.
We can wake up in the
morning and, [GRUMBLES]
it's going to be a horrible day.
Or we can wake up in
the morning and say,
I wonder what's going
to happen today.
I can't wait.
That's a wonderful state
of mind, state of being.
Everything that happens
is an opportunity.
What we make of it is up to us.
If I had pursued magic
full time early on,
maybe I wouldn't have
my wonderful family.
Maybe I'd have a
whole different life.
I'd be living on cruise
ships and in hotels and have
a drinking problem. [LAUGHS]
[BABY LAUGHING]
JORGE: If you fall
down, you have to know
how to get up, when to get up.
I almost tripped.
But then I got up again.
And then I said to myself, OK.
I'm going to become a father.
[CLAPPING A BEAT]
[LAUGHS] We'll see, right?
And everybody's
got shining eyes.
The main thing to realize
is that possibility
shows up in the eyes.
Look at their eyes, in the eyes.
To some degree, you
go with the flow.
And you go with, kind of, where
the universe is taking you.
I'm still 23 years old.
I think I've learned a lot.
I think there's still
much more for me to learn.
[LAUGHS] Life is great.
I mean, it really is amazing.
I'm incredibly
lucky to be alive.
I mean, isn't it an
extraordinary privilege
to be alive?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm 51.
I still like to feel cool.
My ring makes mine.
Just kind of make it
dramatic, like wow.
I mean, when I see
the women pass by,
that's just what I like
to look at. [LAUGHS]
No, I'm just playing.
I'm going have a horrible
operation this afternoon.
They're going to put
a tube through my nose
into my stomach,
extremely unpleasant.
But who knows?
Something wonderful
may come out of it.
[LAUGHS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]